Feature team creation (#1281)
eclipse-score/score: docs/platform_management_plan/project_management.rst

  to the *S-CORE* main integration project or to one particular software module. *Feature Teams* work
  independently of each other on *GitHub Issues* in the assigned software module.
  *Feature Teams* consist of the contributors, who can specify requirements, define architecture,
  develop source code and implement tests afterwards.
  *Project Leads* and *Committers* are also *Contributors* and effectively work on processing of *GitHub Issues*.

  *Feature Team* usually consists of the following roles: Project Lead, Safety Manager, Quality Manager, Security Manager, Committers and Contributors.
  Every *Feature Team* has at least one committer who can approve and merge the Pull Requests of the Contributors.

Creation of a new Feature Team
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
Decision to create a new *Feature Team* is normally done in *Technical Lead Circle* in case a particular,
already *accepted* *Feature Request* can not be assigned to any of already existing *Feature Teams*.
As every *Feature Team* has always an exactly one dedicated repository assigned to it, the decision criteria

> is normally whether the code for the new *Feature Request* would thematically fit into the existing repository of

Reviewer: Is it really needed that one FT "owns" one repository? I think we should seperate between FTs and repositories.

one of the existing *Feature Teams*. If not, then a new *Feature Team* should be created.

As a first step, the decision to create a new Feature Team is protocolled in the `Tech Lead Circle meeeting minutes <https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-score/discussions/categories/technical-lead-circle>`_.
Afterwards a GitHub Issue is created in the `Technical Lead Cirle LOP project <https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-score/projects/3>`_
using the special *Feature Team Creation* GitHub Issue template and is assigned to one of the Technical Leads.

**ToDo**: create such a template.

Usage of the special GitHub Issue template ensures, that all GitHub issues for creation of new *Feature

> Teams* follow the same rules, e.g. that title always has the same format or

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Teams* follow the same rules, e.g. that the title always has the same format or
```

> that description always contains the reasoning for the creation of a new *Feature Team*.

Reviewer: "the title", "the description"?

> that description always contains the reasoning for the creation of a new *Feature Team*.

Reviewer 3: Proposal: We still need a central place for descision records in the handbook

> that description always contains the reasoning for the creation of a new *Feature Team*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that the description always contains the reasoning for the creation of a new *Feature Team*.
```

> Additionally, GitHub Issue created based on the template, contains *DoD list*, that serves as a checklist

Reviewer: "Additionally, *the* GitHub Issue [...]"

> Additionally, GitHub Issue created based on the template, contains *DoD list*, that serves as a checklist

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Additionally, the GitHub issue created from the template includes a *DoD list*, which serves as a checklist
```

> for the Technical Lead to ensure, that he or she has completed all necessary activities/steps to create a new *Feature Team*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
for the Technical Lead to ensure that all necessary activities and steps have been completed to establish a new *Feature Team*.
```

The current *DoD list* is always documented in the template. The most important activities are:

* **Creation of labels**

>   Every *Feature Team* should have it's own label for filtering of GitHub Issues, PRs or discussions.

Reviewer: "its"

>   Every *Feature Team* should have it's own label for filtering of GitHub Issues, PRs or discussions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Every *Feature Team* should have its own label for filtering of GitHub Issues, PRs or discussions.
```

* **Creation of discussion**

>   Every *Feature Team* should have it's own discussion section in the `Feature Teams section <https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-score/discussions>`_

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Every *Feature Team* should have its own discussion section in the `Feature Teams section <https://github.com/orgs/eclipse-score/discussions>`_
```

  of the main *S-CORE* project.

* **Creation of project**

>   Every *Feature Team* should have it's own GitHub project for tracking of Feature Team specific GitHub issues.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  Every *Feature Team* should have its own GitHub project for tracking of Feature Team specific GitHub issues.
```

* **Creation of repository**

  Normally, every *Feature Team* should have a dedicated repository. Creation of new repository is done
  be extending the `otterdog configuration file <https://github.com/eclipse-score/.eclipsefdn/blob/main/otterdog/eclipse-score.jsonnet>`_
  and creating a new PR, that has to be approved by the *Eclipse Project Security Team*.

* **Developer GitHub Team**

  Every *Feature Team* should have a corresponding software developer GitHub team, e.g. *ipc_ft_dev*, that contains all
  developers, that are actively participating in this *Feature Team*. This GitHub group can be used e.g. to

>   send notifications for upcoming meetings or discussions.

Reviewer 3: e.g. create emo ticket...

* **Codeowner GitHub Team**

>   Every *Feature Team* should have a corresponding codeowner GitHub team, e.g. *ipc_ft_co*, that contains all

Reviewer 3: members are linked to the respective teams

>   software developers, whose review is mandatory for every PR in the repository and who have rights to merge PRs to the repository.

Reviewer: In my opinion a better way would be to just document this in the template to avoid duplication

Merge rights & code ownership
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^
As already stated, every *Feature Team* has exactly one dedicated repository. Before the creation of the

> new repository, it should be clarified, whose review is mandatory for merging PRs to the repository

Reviewer 3: What does that mean "clarified". Proposal every committer in the team can be reviewer but at least one review is mandatory

and who is at the end allowed to merge PRs to the repository.

In the S-CORE project, the configuration whose review is mandatory to merge a PR to the repository is done

> using `CODEOWNERS file and branch protection <https://docs.github.com/en/repositories/managing-your-repositorys-settings-and-features/customizing-your-repository/about-code-owners#codeowners-and-branch-protection>`_ .

Reviewer 3: Wrong. Is part of the otterdog config

Every repository has a CODEOWNERS file, where one or multiple teams or persons are specified, whose review is needed for the PR
to be able to be merged. The teams listed there are normally:

* *Codeowner GitHub Team* for this *Feature Team*
* GitHub Team for security managers
* GitHub Team for quality managers
* GitHub Team for safety managers

**ToDo**: can we have an 'AND relationship' for teams in CODEOWNERS file?

> *Codeowner GitHub Team* for the corresponding *Feature Team* consists of the senior software developers, that understand how

Reviewer 3: Role "Senior Software developer" not defined anywhere

the particular feature works or should work. The members of this team should be selected and agreed
during the creation of the *Feature Team* by the *Technical Leads*. The criteria for the selection should be the
technical competence of the software developers, e.g. in case during the :ref:`Feature Request process <feature_request_guideline>`
it was decided to take over already existing source code, then persons who were actively participating in the
development of that code are always good candidates to be part of *Codeowner GitHub team*.
The decision who should be initially part of the *Codeowner GitHub team* and the reasoning for this
should be protocolled in the GitHub Issue, that is used for creation of the *Feature Team*.

In case further software developers should be added to the *Codeowener GitHub team* in the future,

> that decision and it's reasoning should be protocolled in one of the *Feature Team* GitHub discussions.

Reviewer: its

> that decision and it's reasoning should be protocolled in one of the *Feature Team* GitHub discussions.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
that decision and its reasoning should be protocolled in one of the *Feature Team* GitHub discussions.
```

> Members of the *Codeowner GitHub team* should be also the ones, who can merge the PRs to the corresponding repository.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Members of the *Codeowner GitHub team* should also be authorized to merge pull requests (PRs) into the corresponding repository.
```

> Therefore as soon as *Codeowner GitHub team* is created, Technical Lead, who is the assignee of the ticket for the *Feature

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Therefore, once the *Codeowner GitHub team* has been created, the Technical Lead assigned to the ticket for the *Feature 
```

> Team* creation, should start committer elections for all software developers in the *Codeowner GitHub team*. All other

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Team* setup should initiate committer elections for all software developers in the *Codeowner GitHub team*.
```

> Technical Leads, who are also committers in the S-CORE project, should support these elections through positive voting in case no

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All other Technical Leads who are already committers in the S-CORE project are expected to support these
```

> concrete objections exist.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
elections by voting positively, provided there are no specific objections.
```
